# Ben Shelton

Benjamin Todd Shelton (born October 9, 2002) is an American professional tennis player. He has been ranked by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) as high as world No. 5 in singles, which he achieved on November 10, 2025, and No. 68 in doubles, attained on May 20, 2024. He is the current No. 1 American player in men's singles. 
Shelton has won five singles titles on the ATP Tour, including a masters at the 2025 Canadian Open. His best grand slam results are semifinals at the 2023 US Open and the 2025 Australian Open. He has won one doubles title at 2026 U.S. Men's Clay Court Championships with Andrés Andrade.
Shelton is known for his powerful left-handed serves and boisterous personality. He is coached by his father, former professional player and college coach Bryan Shelton.

Early life
Shelton is the son of former professional tennis player Bryan Shelton, who now coaches his son. His mother, Lisa Witsken Shelton, was also a highly ranked junior tennis player, and his uncle Todd Witsken, was a professional tennis player. His sister Emma played college tennis at Florida. Shelton was born in Atlanta as his father was the then-coach of Georgia Tech's women's tennis team  and grew up in Gainesville after his father became the coach of Florida Gators men's tennis team. 
Shelton played American football in his early childhood, and his parents did not pressure him to play tennis. At age 12 he began playing tennis regularly, coached by his father.
He graduated from Buchholz High School.

Juniors
Shelton peaked at No. 3 in the USTA Boys' 18s division rankings. He was a runner-up at the 2020 USTA Boys 18s Winter Nationals and won the 2019 USTA Boys 16s tournament in doubles.
Shelton had mixed results on the ITF junior circuit, being less successful at international junior events. He reached a junior combined ranking of No. 306 in December 2020.

College years
From 2020 to 2022, he played collegiate tennis for the Florida Gators. A finance major, Shelton mostly played No. 5 singles as a freshman in 2020–21 and had an overall record of 28–5. He helped the Gators win the Southeastern Conference (SEC) regular season title, and he won the championship-clinching match at the 2021 NCAA Championships, securing Florida's first national title.
In 2021–22, Shelton had a record of 37–5 in singles matches (including 14–2 in the No. 1 spot). He won the Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) All-American Championships in the fall without dropping a set. He helped Florida defend their SEC title and win the SEC Tournament Championship. Shelton won the 2022 NCAA Singles Championship over August Holmgren and finished the season as the nation's top-ranked player. He was named SEC Player of the Year and  National Player of the Year.
Shelton returned to Florida for his junior year in 2022–23 to complete his finance degree, but soon continued his college education online.

Professional career
2022: ATP debut, Challenger titles, top-5 win
At the Georgia's Rome Challenger in July, Shelton reached his first Challenger final, losing to Wu Yibing. The next week at the Indy Challenger, he reached the semi-finals, highlighted by a win over world No. 103 Tim van Rijthoven.
Shelton made his ATP Tour debut at the Atlanta Open as a wildcard, and in the first round he defeated Ramkumar Ramanathan for his first ATP win. He lost his next match to the No. 2 seed John Isner in three sets. Shelton received a wildcard entry into the Cincinnati Masters. In the first round, he defeated world No. 56 Lorenzo Sonego in three sets for his first win over a top-100 player. In the 2nd round, Shelton faced world No. 5 Casper Ruud in his first matchup against a top-10 opponent. Shelton defeated Ruud, in straight sets for his first top-10 win.

On August 23, 2022, Shelton announced he would not return to college and would turn professional. He announced that he would be represented by agent Alessandro Sant Albano, who is a part of Roger Federer's TEAM8 management firm.
Shelton also received a wildcard to appear in the main draw for his Grand Slam debut at the US Open on August 14. He lost in the first round, in five sets, to Nuno Borges while also recording the second fastest serve of the US Open tournament at 149 miles per hour (240 km/h) in this match. He also competed in doubles having paired with fellow American Christopher Eubanks. They were eliminated in the second round after defeating Stefanos Tsitsipas and Petros Tsitsipas in the first round.
Shelton reached his third Challenger final of the year at the 2022 Tiburon Challenger after defeating top seed Denis Kudla. As a result, he moved into the top 160 in the rankings on October 10, 2022. He advanced to his fourth Challenger final at the Charlottesville Men's Pro Challenger where he defeated his doubles partner Christopher Eubanks to secure his first Challenger title. As a result, he moved into the top 150 in the rankings at world No. 128 on November 7. His fifth Challenger final featured a repeat of his last with a win against Christopher Eubanks in the Knoxville Challenger which lifted him another 20 positions up to No. 108 in the rankings on November 14. After winning his third straight title at the Champaign–Urbana Challenger, he debuted in the top 100 of the rankings ending the year at world No. 97 on November 21, 2022, and became the youngest player in ATP Challenger Tour history to win three titles in three weeks. He was also the youngest American in the Top 250.

2023: First Major semifinal, first ATP title, top 15
On his debut at the 2023 Australian Open, Shelton reached the fourth round, with wins against Zhang Zhizhen, Nicolás Jarry, and Alexei Popyrin. This was only Shelton's second Grand Slam after the 2022 US Open. Next he defeated compatriot J. J. Wolf to reach the quarterfinal of a Major for the first time in his career. His run concluded with a four-set loss to fellow American Tommy Paul. As a result, he moved 45 positions up into the top 50, at world No. 44, for the first time in his career.
In the beginning of the American hard court season for 2023, Shelton faced a tough start, experiencing defeat in the opening round at the 2023 Delray Beach Open, losing in straight sets to Marcos Giron. His struggles continued at the Mexican Open, where he once again fell in the first round, this time to the fourth-seeded Holger Rune, in a match that stretched to three sets. However, Shelton managed to bounce back at Indian Wells, securing a victory over Fabio Fognini in the initial round, only to be bested by fellow American Taylor Fritz in the second round.
At the 2023 US Open Shelton made it to his first Grand Slam semifinal,  where he lost in straight sets to second seed and eventual champion  Novak Djokovic. As a result, he reached the top 20 in the rankings at world No. 19 on September 11, 2023.
At the 2023 Rolex Shanghai Masters he reached the quarterfinals of a Masters 1000 for the first time defeating fourth seed Jannik Sinner for the second biggest win of his career. He reached his maiden final and won his maiden title at the 2023 Japan Open Tennis Championships defeating qualifier Taro Daniel, Jordan Thompson, fifth seed Tommy Paul, qualifier Marcos Giron and Aslan Karatsev. He became the sixth first-time ATP champion in the season and as a result reached the top 15 in the singles rankings on October 23, 2023.

2024: First title on clay, American No. 1, maiden UTS title
At the U.S. Clay Court Championships he reached his first quarterfinal on clay courts defeating Zizou Bergs, and his first semifinal defeating compatriot Brandon Nakashima. Next he defeated fourth seed Tomás Martín Etcheverry to reach his first clay court final. He won his second career title and first on clay becoming the youngest champion since Andy Roddick in 2002, defeating third seed Frances Tiafoe in the first African-American men's singles tennis final in the Open Era. As a result, he reached a new career-high singles ranking of world No. 14 on April 8, 2024, and became the American No. 1 player ahead of Taylor Fritz on April 15, 2024. He became the youngest American No. 1 player since Andy Roddick achieved the feat in March 2004. Shelton would go on to reach a new ranking of world No.13 in August.

At the Cincinnati Open he reached the round of 16 for the second time at the tournament, saving a match point against Tomás Martín Etcheverry. he reached his second Masters career quarterfinal with a win over Fábián Marozsán. Shelton reached the third round of the US Open, defeating former 2020 champion Dominic Thiem in his final US Open, and Roberto Carballes Baena in the second round, before losing to eventual semifinalist Francis Tiafoe in a repeat of the previous year's quarter-final.
At the 2024 Laver Cup, Shelton earned 6 of Team World's 11 points in a 13–11 loss to Team Europe. On day one, Shelton partnered Taylor Fritz to defeat Alexander Zverev and Carlos Alcaraz of Team Europe. On day 2, Shelton was defeated by Alcaraz in singles, while partnering with Alejandro Tabilo to defeat the doubles team of Casper Ruud and Stefanos Tsitsipas. On the third day, Shelton defeated Daniil Medvedev, before losing to the doubles team of Alcaraz and Ruud. Shelton's played a total of 5 matches, more than any other Laver Cup participant, and earned 6 points, more than anyone on Team World.
Shelton defeated Ugo Humbert in four quarters to win his maiden UTS title in Frankfurt. Shelton reached the final of the Swiss Indoors in October, but was defeated by Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard. On his way to the final, Shelton defeated, among others, Arthur Fils in the semifinals.

2025: World No. 5, Masters title, ATP Finals, Australian semifinal
Shelton, seeded first at the Auckland Open lost to Jakub Menšík in the round of 16. In the Australian Open, Shelton advanced past the first week after defeating compatriot Brandon Nakashima in straight sets in round 1, Pablo Carreño Busta in round 2, Lorenzo Musetti in round 3, and advanced past Gaël Monfils after the Frenchman retired in the fourth set due to injury. In the quarterfinals, Shelton defeated Lorenzo Sonego in four sets. In his final match of the tournament, Shelton lost to defending champion Jannik Sinner in the semifinals in three sets.
At the Indian Wells Open, Shelton reached the quarterfinals for the first time at the tournament becoming the youngest American to accomplish the feat since Andy Roddick in 2004. Shelton made his top 10 debut following his quarterfinal win over Jiří Lehečka at the Stuttgart Open. He lost in the semifinals to top seed and eventual champion Alexander Zverev. By reaching the quarterfinals at the Washington Open, Shelton secured a new career high ranking of world No. 7 on July 28, 2025. He defeated hometown favorite and sixth seed Frances Tiafoe to reach a consecutive semifinal in Washington, the third American to accomplish the feat.
He reached his first ATP 1000 semifinal at the Canadian Open, defeating Flavio Cobolli en route and recording his 100th career win, and Alex de Minaur. He became the youngest American to reach the last four at an ATP 1000, since Andy Roddick in 2005 in Indian Wells. He defeated Karen Khachanov in the final in three sets to win his third career title, first ATP Masters title, and a new ranking of world No. 6.
At the 2025 Cincinnati Open, Shelton made it to the quarterfinals after beating Camilo Ugo Carabelli, Roberto Bautista Agut, and Jiří Lehečka all in straight sets, before losing to Alexander Zverev in straight sets. At the Paris Masters, Shelton defeated Andrey Rublev to reach the quarterfinals. In doing so, Shelton rose to a new career high ranking of world No. 5 in November and qualified for the ATP Finals, marking his debut appearance.

2026: American No. 1 in top 10, ATP doubles title
Starting his season at the ASB Classic, Shelton reached the quarterfinals where he lost against Sebastián Báez. He made another quarterfinal run at the Australian Open, beating Ugo Humbert and Casper Ruud, before losing to two-time defending champion Jannik Sinner.
Shelton won his fourth career title and first title of the season at Dallas Open in February with wins against defending champion Denis Shapovalov and after saving 3 championship points in the final against Taylor Fritz.
At the US Men's Clay Court Championship Shelton lifted his first ATP doubles title with Andrés Andrade.
In singles he again became the American No. 1 player in the ATP Rankings on 6 April 2026 at world No. 8 ahead of Taylor Fritz. Ben Shelton won the Munich BMW Open with a 6-2 7-5 victory over Flavio Cobolli.

Endorsements and media
As of March 2023, Shelton is sponsored by On for clothing and shoes and Yonex for racquets.
On January 14, 2024, Shelton announced his partnership with Rolex. He has also appeared in advertising campaigns for Loewe, Ralph Lauren, Thorne Health and Bose.
Shelton was featured in the second season of the Netflix documentary series Break Point in 2024.
In December 2025, Shelton launched his YouTube channel with a new docu-series titled The Long Game.

Playing style
Shelton's best weapon is his serve. He has the ability to hit a big first serve, which averages 126 miles per hour (203 km/h). At the 2023 US Open, he hit two service aces at 149.0 miles per hour (239.8 km/h) in the same game; he has hit serves at 150.0 miles per hour (241.4 km/h) on multiple separate occasions. He also can produce a significant amount of kick on both first and second serves. A left-handed player, Shelton is powerful and consistent on both the forehand and backhand side. He is comfortable moving to the net off his powerful groundstrokes to finish points. Shelton has said "I love to get to net, be able to use some of my hand skills, athletic skills and going up to get the ball (to put away overheads) is one of my favorite things to do..." He has said that the serve-and-volley is an important part of his game and an area he wants to further develop.
Shelton's serve is not his only weapon though, as he's developed a wider variety of shots to use within his games despite initial criticisms that he relied too heavily on it. He is now able to sustain longer rallies, utilizing his stamina rather than ending points prematurely.
His tennis idol is Roger Federer.

Personal life
Shelton was in a relationship with heptathlete Anna Hall from 2021 to 2023. In March 2025 he was confirmed to be dating soccer player Trinity Rodman.
He is currently based in Orlando, Florida.

Career statistics
Singles
Current through the 2026 Australian Open.

ATP 1000 tournaments
Singles: 1 (title)
Notes
References
External links

Ben Shelton at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Ben Shelton at the International Tennis Federation 
Ben Shelton at the Davis Cup (archived)
Florida Gators bio Archived July 5, 2022, at the Wayback Machine