# Arthur Fils

Arthur Fils (French pronunciation: [aʁtyʁ fis]; born 12 June 2004) is a French professional tennis player. He has a career-high ATP singles ranking of world No. 14, achieved on 14 April 2025 and a best doubles ranking of No. 185, reached on 4 August 2025. He is the current No. 1 singles player from France.
Fils has won four ATP Tour singles titles. He represents France in the Davis Cup.

Early life
Raised in Bondoufle in the department of Essonne next to the capital Paris in the region Île-de-France, Arthur Fils started playing tennis at the age of 5 with his father Jean-Philippe, who is originally from Haiti. His biggest tennis idols are Roger Federer and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.
Licensed at the tennis club of Saint-Michel-sur-Orge, he has trained at the French National Training Center (indoor) of the French Tennis Federation just next to Stade Roland Garros since 2019.

Career
2020–22: Junior success, ATP Tour debut
In 2020, Fils won the prestigious Orange Bowl in the boys' singles category, becoming only the second French player to win the tournament since 2009. Fils' most notable results at junior-level came at his home major, the French Open. He won the boys' doubles title, with compatriot Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard, defeating Martin Katz and German Samofalov in the final. He was also a finalist in the boys' singles category.
He reached an ITF junior combined ranking of world No. 3 on 5 July 2021.
Ranked world No. 308, Fils made his ATP Tour debut at the 2022 Rolex Paris Masters, when he became the youngest French qualifier, at 18 years, 4 months and 18 days, to enter the main-draw of a Masters 1000 tournament with a win against former top-10 player Fabio Fognini since Gaël Monfils in 2004, the year of his birth. He lost in the first round to Fognini, who entered the draw as lucky loser.

2023: First Major win & ATP title, top 40
Fils won his maiden Challenger title at the Oeiras Indoors II. As a result he moved close to 60 positions up into the top 200 at world No. 195 on 16 January 2023.
Ranked No. 163, he received a wildcard entry into the Open Sud de France and recorded his first match win on the ATP Tour by defeating former world no. 7 Richard Gasquet in straight sets. Next he defeated fourth seed Roberto Bautista Agut to reach the quarterfinals becoming the first player born in 2004 or later to reach this ATP level. He defeated another countryman, Quentin Halys, becoming the youngest Frenchman since Gasquet to reach an ATP semifinal in Metz in 2004. In the semifinals, Fils lost to second seed Jannik Sinner who was ranked at No. 15 in the world. Despite the loss, he rose nearly 50 positions to make his debut in the top 150 at world No. 117 on 13 February 2023. 
He made it back-to-back semifinals by reaching the last four at the Open 13 Provence in Marseille defeating Roman Safiullin, second seed Jannik Sinner after getting a walkover, and Stan Wawrinka in straight sets. As a result he moved another 15 positions up to No. 104 on 27 February 2023. He lost to compatriot Benjamin Bonzi.
He qualified into the main-draw for his first Masters 1000 on clay, the Italian Open and defeated fellow qualifier Juan Manuel Cerúndolo in the first round, before falling to the eventual runner-up, world No. 7 Holger Rune in the second round. He also received a wildcard for the following month’s 2023 French Open.
Following reaching his third semifinal of the season in Lyon after a walkover from top seed Félix Auger-Aliassime due to shoulder injury, Fils made his debut in the top 100 of the rankings on 29 May 2023, the youngest active player to reach the milestone. He won his maiden title defeating fourth seed Francisco Cerúndolo becoming the youngest champion in the tournament history. Ranked No. 112, Fils was also the lowest-ranked champion and the third first time winner in the season.

In his French Open debut, his first-ever appearance in a Grand Slam, Fils was defeated in the first round by Alejandro Davidovich Fokina.
He was awarded a wildcard for his main-draw debut at Wimbledon, losing again in the first round to Alejandro Davidovich Fokina. At the same tournament in doubles, Fils recorded his first Grand Slam doubles win, playing along with fellow countryman Luca Van Assche, defeating brothers Stefanos Tsitsipas and Petros Tsitsipas.
Fils reached his first ATP 500 semifinal at the Hamburg European Open, defeating top seed Casper Ruud in the quarterfinal, his first win against a top-5 ranked player,  before losing to the eventual champion Alexander Zverev, in the semifinals. He made his debut into the top 50 on 31 July 2023, following the tournament.
At the US Open, Fils earned his first Major win, defeating 24th seed Tallon Griekspoor in the first round. He then lost to Matteo Arnaldi in the second round.
Ranked No. 44 at the Shanghai Masters, on his debut at this tournament, he defeated Pavel Kotov and Alejandro Davidovich Fokina and made the top 40 on 16 October 2023. He lost to 12th seed Tommy Paul in the third round.
Fils reached his second final at the European Open in Antwerp with a win over top seed Stefanos Tsitsipas in straight sets with two tiebreaks, his second top-10 win of the season and his career. He became the youngest finalist in the tournament's history. He lost to third seed Alexander Bublik in the championship match.
In November, Fils qualified for the Next Generation ATP Finals and made it through to the final, which he lost to Hamad Medjedovic.
Fils won the Newcomer of the Year award.

2024: Wimbledon fourth round, ATP 500 titles
At the Monte-Carlo Masters, Fils made history by becoming the youngest Frenchman since Richard Gasquet in 2005, to win a match when he defeated Yannick Hanfmann in the first round. He lost to Lorenzo Musetti in the second round.
At the Barcelona Open he reached the quarterfinals, defeating Daniel Altmaier and fourth seed Alex de Minaur, before losing to Dušan Lajović. Despite the loss, he reached a new career-high of No. 32, entering the top 35 in the singles rankings on 22 April 2024.
In May, Fils, as the top seed, won the Bordeaux Challenger, defeating second seed Pedro Martínez in the final.
In July, at Wimbledon, Fils reached the third round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time in his career after defeating seventh seed Hubert Hurkacz in the second round via a retirement (on match point). Fils went on to defeat Roman Safiullin in the third round to reach the fourth round at a Major for the first time in his career. As a result, Fils would move up to a new career high ranking of No. 28 on 15 July 2024. He lost to world No. 9 Alex de Minaur in the fourth round in four sets.
At the Hamburg Open, he won his first ATP 500 title defeating top seed Alexander Zverev in the final, having recorded wins over Jaume Munar, Laslo Djere, second seed Holger Rune and third seed Sebastián Báez in earlier rounds. Fils' win over world No. 4 Zverev was his fourth top-10 win and his second top-5 win. As a result he entered the top 20 in the rankings on 22 July 2024.
He reached a second ATP 500 final at the Japan Open with upset wins over world No. 7 and top seed Taylor Fritz, Matteo Berrettini, defending champion and eighth seed Ben Shelton and sixth seed Holger Rune. He won his third ATP title defeating compatriot Ugo Humbert in three sets, defeating four top-20 opponents en route to becoming the second-youngest champion in Tokyo tournament history.

Seeded seventh at the Swiss Indoors, Fils defeated third seed Stefanos Tsitsipas in the quarterfinals. He lost in the semifinals to sixth seed Ben Shelton.

2025: Two Masters quarterfinals, top 15, back injury
At the Australian Open he defeated Otto Virtanen and fellow French player Quentin Halys to reach the third round for the first time at the tournament, where he retired due to a foot injury while trailing by two sets to one against another compatriot, 14th seed, Ugo Humbert.
At the Indian Wells Open, he reached his first Masters 1000 quarterfinal with wins over lucky loser Gabriel Diallo, sixth seed Lorenzo Musetti and Marcos Giron, before losing to fifth seed Daniil Medvedev in a deciding set tiebreak. Despite the loss he reached a new career-high ranking of World No. 18 on 17 March 2025.
At the next Masters in Miami, he again reached the quarterfinals defeating world No. 2 Alexander Zverev in the third round, for the biggest win of his career. He became only the third Frenchman to reach the last eight at both ‘Sunshine Double’ events in the same year after Yannick Noah (1986-87, 1989) and Gael Monfils (2016). He lost to Jakub Menšík in straight sets the next day but still reached a new career-high rankings of No. 15 in the rankings on 31 March 2025.
Moving onto the European clay court swing of the season, Fils defeated Tallon Griekspoor, Flavio Cobolli and seventh seed Andrey Rublev to make it through to the quarterfinals at the Monte-Carlo Masters, at which point he lost to second seed and eventual champion Carlos Alcaraz in three sets. The following week at the Barcelona Open, he overcame wildcard entrant Pablo Carreño Busta, Pedro Martínez and third seed Stefanos Tsitsipas to reach the semifinals, where he run was ended by top seed Carlos Alcaraz for the second successive tournament. At the French Open, Fils was seeded 14th and won his first match at his home major, defeating Nicolás Jarry. He then overcame Jaume Munar in five sets, before being forced to withdraw from the tournament prior to his third round match against Andrey Rublev due to a back injury.
Apart from a brief return at the Canadian Open, where he played two matches, winning one and losing the next, Fils' back problems kept him out of action for the rest of 2025.

2026: Comeback, ATP 500 title, 100th win, back to top 25
Fils missed the first month of the 2026 season, including the Australian Open, while he continued to rehabilitate his back injury.
In February, he made his return to the competitive court at the Open Occitanie in Montpellier where he defeated Valentin Royer and lucky loser Ugo Blanchet, before losing to top seed and eventual champion Félix Auger-Aliassime in the quarterfinals.
At the Qatar Open, Fils made it through to the final with wins over Kamil Majchrzak, lucky loser Quentin Halys eighth seed Jiří Lehečka. and sixth seed Jakub Menšík. He lost to world No. 1 Carlos Alcaraz in the championship match.
In March, Fils reached the quarterfinals at Indian Wells, at which point he lost to fourth seed Alexander Zverev, and followed this up by making it into the semifinals at the Miami Open, where he fell to 21st seed Jiří Lehečka.
In April, seeded ninth at the 2026 Barcelona Open Banc Sabadell Fils saved two match points before finally overcoming fellow French player Térence Atmane in the first round. He then recorded wins over Brandon Nakashima and second seed Lorenzo Musetti to reach the semifinals. In the last four, he defeated wildcard entrant Rafael Jódar, registering his 100th ATP Tour match win. Fils overcame fifth seed Andrey Rublev in the final to claim his fourth ATP title, and first since October 2024. As a result of his win, Fils moved back up to world No. 25 in the ATP rankings on 20 April 2026.

Coaching and playing style
He was coached by Laurent Raymond from the end of 2022 to the end of the 2023; Raymond was then replaced by former world No. 4 Sébastien Grosjean and former world No. 3 and two-time Roland Garros winner Sergi Bruguera.
In March 2025, Fils split with his coach Sébastien Grosjean after 15 months. 
In February 2026, Fils announced that 2001 Wimbledon champion Goran Ivanišević had joined Fils' coaching team. 
Fils is a powerful player and uses his serve and forehand to quickly finish points. He is a top-level mover and ball-striker with a mix of topspin and pace, especially on his forehand on clay.

Performance timelines
Singles
Current through the 2026 Wimbledon Championships.

ATP Tour finals
Singles: 6 (4 titles, 2 runner-ups)
National and international representation
Team competitions finals: 1 (runner-up)
ATP Next Generation finals
Singles: 1 (runner-up)
ATP Challenger Tour finals
Singles: 3 (2 titles, 1 runner-up)
Wins against top 10 players
Fils has a 9–14 win-loss record against players who were, at the time the match was played, ranked in the top 10.

*As of 17 April 2026

Junior Grand Slam finals
Singles: 1 (runner-up)
Doubles: 1 (title)
References
External links
Arthur Fils at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Arthur Fils at World Tennis 
Arthur Fils at the Davis Cup (archived former page)
Arthur Fils at Olympics.com
Arthur Fils at Équipe de France (in French)
Arthur Fils on Instagram