# Anders Jarryd

Anders Per Järryd (pronounced [ˈânːdɛʂ ˈjæ̂rːyːd]; born 13 July 1961) is a former professional tennis player from Sweden. During his career he won eight Grand Slam doubles titles (three French Open, two Wimbledon, two US Open, one Australian Open), reached the world No. 1 doubles ranking, and achieved a career-high singles ranking of world No. 5.
Järryd was born in Lidköping, Västra Götaland. He also played bandy in Lidköpings AIK, while growing up.

Career
Järryd turned professional in 1980. He won his first tour doubles title in 1981 in Linz, Austria. One year later he captured his first top-level singles title, also at Linz. In 1983, Järryd won his first Grand Slam doubles title at the French Open, partnering his fellow Swede Hans Simonsson. Järryd had a strong year in 1984, winning two singles and four doubles titles. He also finished runner-up in the men's doubles at the US Open that year, partnering Stefan Edberg.
1985 saw Järryd's career-best Grand Slam singles performance, when he beat Claudio Panatta, Scott Davis, Vincent Van Patten, Danie Visser and Heinz Günthardt to reach the semi-finals at Wimbledon before being knocked out in four sets by Boris Becker. Järryd reached his career-high singles ranking of world No. 5 in July 1985, and captured the world No. 1 doubles ranking that August. At the French Open and US Open, Järryd progressed to career-best finishes in those two tournaments, finishing the fourth round and quarterfinal respectively. In 1986 he won the WCT Finals by beating Boris Becker in the final, while he and Edberg were the men's doubles runners-up at the French Open.
Järryd won three of the four Grand Slam men's doubles titles in 1987: at the Australian Open (with partner Edberg), in Roland Garros (with partner Robert Seguso), and at the US Open (with partner Edberg). Järryd was a member of Swedish team which won the Davis Cup that year. He won two singles matches in the final, in which Sweden beat India 5–0. (Järryd also played on three Swedish teams which finished runners-up in the Davis Cup: in 1986, in 1988, and in 1989.)
Järryd played with John Fitzgerald in 1988, to finish runner-up in the men's doubles at the French Open and Wimbledon. Järryd won a men's doubles bronze medal at the Olympic Games that year, partnering Edberg. Järryd was a member of the Swedish team which won the World Team Cup in 1988. He partnered Fitzgerald in 1989 to win the men's doubles title at Wimbledon, thus completing a career set of all four Grand Slam men's doubles titles. Järryd and Fitzgerald won three of the four men's doubles titles in 1991: in Roland Garros, in Wimbledon, and at the US Open, his last Grand Slam titles. Järryd reached his last Grand Slam doubles final at the 1993 Australian Open, with Fitzgerald.
Järryd won eight top-level singles titles and 58 tour doubles titles during his career. His final singles title came in 1993 at Rotterdam. He won his last doubles title in 1995 at St. Petersburg. He retired from the professional tour in 1996.

Grand Slam finals
Doubles (8 titles, 5 runner-ups)
Career finals
Singles: 24 (8 titles, 16 runner-ups)
Doubles: 91 (58 titles, 33 runner-ups)
Career statistics
Grand Slam singles performance timeline
Grand Slam doubles performance timeline
External links
Anders Järryd at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Anders Järryd at World Tennis 
Anders Järryd at the Davis Cup (archived) 
Anders Järryd at Olympedia 
Anders Järryd at Olympics.com