# Tallon Griekspoor

Tallon Griekspoor (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈtɛlɔŋ ˈxrikspoːr]; born 2 July 1996) is a Dutch professional tennis player. He has a career-high ATP singles ranking of world No. 21 achieved on 6 November 2023 and a best doubles ranking of No. 61, reached on 10 June 2024. He is the current No. 1 singles player from The Netherlands. 
Griekspoor has won five ATP Tour titles combined, three in singles and two in doubles. He represents The Netherlands at the Davis Cup.
Griekspoor is notable for a record eight Challenger titles won in one season (2021), and the first player to earn five consecutive such titles.

Early life and background
Griekspoor was born in Haarlem to father Ron and mother Monique, and grew up in Nieuw-Vennep. He has two older brothers, Scott and Kevin, who are twins. His grandfather Joop founded the construction company Griekspoor BV, where much of his family works.
Griekspoor and his brothers began playing tennis when he was six, training at the Nieuw-Vennep Tennis Club. At the age of 12, he began playing at the Zandvoort Tennis Club.

Professional career
2017–2019: ATP debut
Griekspoor made his ATP main draw debut as a wildcard at the 2017 Rotterdam Open in the singles draw against Gilles Müller. In 2018, at the same tournament a year later, he upset fifth seed Stan Wawrinka in three sets to reach the second round as a wildcard. In 2019, Griekspoor upset second seed Karen Khachanov in the first round, again as a wildcard.

2020–2021: Major debut, Challenger win record
Griekspoor qualified for his first Grand Slam at the 2020 Australian Open. He made his top 150 debut on 31 August 2020.
In 2021, Griekspoor won two Challenger tour titles at the Prague Open and at the Bratislava Open. He then qualified for the 2021 Wimbledon Championships, marking his debut at the tournament. Following Wimbledon, as the top seed, he reached the final of the Dutch Open in Amersfoort. He defeated his compatriot and No. 2 seed Botic van de Zandschulp in the final for his fifth Challenger title.
At the US Open, Griekspoor  reached the second round of a Major for the first time in his career, defeating Jan-Lennard Struff in five sets. He then lost to top seed and world No. 1, Novak Djokovic, in the second round. In September, following the US Open, he won his sixth Challenger title and fourth of the year at the Murcia Open, defeating top seed Roberto Carballés Baena.
The following month, he won his fifth Challenger of the year at the Tennis Napoli Cup, defeating Andrea Pellegrino. The following week, also in Naples, he won his sixth Challenger title of the year at the Vesuvio Cup, defeating Alexander Ritschard. With this victory, Griekspoor tied Benjamin Bonzi for the most Challenger titles in 2021. In addition, he joined Facundo Bagnis (2016), Juan Ignacio Chela (2001) and Younes El Aynaoui (1998) as the only players to lift six singles trophies in one season on the ATP Challenger Tour. As a result, he reached the top 100 for the first time in his career.
He won his seventh Challenger title of the season in Tenerife, defeating Feliciano López in the final and becoming the sole record holder for most trophies at that level in a single year. He won his eighth Challenger at the Slovak Open II and reached a new career-high ranking of No. 64 on 22 November 2021.

2022: Antwerp doubles title, top 50
Griekspoor began his season at the Melbourne Summer Set 1, where he made the quarterfinals after beating seventh seed Dominik Koepfer and Alexei Popyrin. He withdrew from his quarterfinal match against Rafael Nadal due to a foot injury. At the Australian Open, he defeated Fabio Fognini in straight sets in the first round for his first win at the tournament. He lost to 19th seed Pablo Carreño Busta in the second round.
At his home tournament, the Rotterdam Open, he reached the second round as a wildcard, with a victory over seventh seed Aslan Karatsev, saving two match points in the process for his third top-20 win. He recorded a perfect 3–0 against top-15 players in his home tournament in Rotterdam. At the Geneva Open, he defeated sixth seed and world No. 33 Tommy Paul in the first round and home qualifier Johan Nikles in the second.
At the French Open, he defeated world No. 28 and 25th seed Alejandro Davidovich Fokina in the first round. At the Libéma Open, he reached the second round with a win over Aljaž Bedene. Following Wimbledon, where he also reached the second round with a win over Fabio Fognini, he made his debut in the top 50 at world No. 47 on 11 July 2022. The following week, he successfully defended his Challenger title at the Dutch Open as the top seed, defeating Roberto Carballés Baena in the final.
At the European Open in Antwerp, he won his maiden ATP doubles title with Botic van de Zandschulp.

2023: Two ATP titles & top 10 win, Dutch No. 1
In Pune, Griekspoor reached his maiden ATP singles semifinal, beating Jaume Munar and Marco Cecchinato, then receiving a walkover against top seed Marin Čilić. He defeated 8th seed Aslan Karatsev in the semifinals in straight sets to reach the final, where he defeated Benjamin Bonzi in three sets to win his maiden ATP Tour singles title.
At the Australian Open, Griekspoor reached the third round of a Grand Slam for the first time in his career, beating Pavel Kotov and 32nd seed, compatriot Botic van de Zandschulp. He lost to third seed and eventual finalist Stefanos Tsitsipas in the third round.
Griekspoor made the quarterfinals in Rotterdam, after defeating Mikael Ymer and eight seed Alexander Zverev, his fourth top-20 win. He recorded a perfect 4–0 against top-20 players in his home tournament. Next he defeated Gijs Brouwer to reach his second semifinal of the season and overall and first career semifinal of an ATP 500 tournament. It was the first time since Igor Sijsling in 2014 (who also coincidentally was coached by Dennis Schenk) that a Dutch wildcard reached the semifinals at the home tournament. It was also the first time a Dutch duo, Griekspoor and Brouwer, reached the quarterfinals in singles of the home tournament, since Raemon Sluiter and Sjeng Schalken in 2003. He lost to Jannik Sinner in straight sets. As a result, he reached a new career-high ranking in the top 40.

Seeded 31st at the BNP Paribas Open, he reached the third round of a Masters for the first time in his career, with a bye in the first round and a win over Guido Pella in the second. He lost to top seed and eventual champion Carlos Alcaraz. He reached the top 35 on 3 April 2023.
At the Libéma Open, he defeated Mikael Ymer and Alexei Popyrin to reach the quarterfinals. He reached the semifinals with an upset over fourth seed Alex de Minaur. He reached the second final of his career with a win over Emil Ruusuvuori, and won his second ATP title with a win over Jordan Thompson in the final. With this win, he became the Dutch No. 1 and reached the top 30. At the Halle Open, he upset defending champion Hubert Hurkacz to reach back-to-back quarterfinals on grass. At Wimbledon, he lost to Márton Fucsovics in the first round.
Seeded 12th at the Citi Open in Washington, he defeated Liam Broady, Gaël Monfils, and J. J. Wolf to reach the second ATP 500 semifinal of his career. He then upset top seed and world No. 9 Taylor Fritz for his first career top 10 victory to advance to his third final of 2023 and first at ATP 500 Level. He lost to Dan Evans in the final.
He reached the quarterfinals at both the Astana Open and the Stockholm Open. He reached the third round of a Masters 1000 for the first time on his debut in Paris, where he lost to world No. 1 Novak Djokovic, but reached a new career-high ranking of No. 21 on 6 November 2023.

2024: Australian third round, Davis Cup finalist
Seeded 28th at the 2024 Australian Open, Griekspoor defeated Roman Safiullin and Arthur Fils to reach back-to-back third rounds at the tournament. In Rotterdam, he recorded another first round victory over Lorenzo Musetti, saving two match points in the process. He reached the quarterfinals with an upset over fourth seed Hubert Hurkacz. At the Dubai Tennis Championships, he won his first ATP 500 doubles title with Jan-Lennard Struff. Seeded 27th, he reached the third round of Indian Wells with a win over Yannick Hanfmann before losing to sixth seed Alexander Zverev. In Miami he also reached the third round with a win over Alex Michelsen in three tight sets, before losing to second seed and eventual champion Jannik Sinner.
He reached the second round of the Monte-Carlo Masters with a win over Dominik Koepfer, before losing to 11th seed Alex de Minaur. At the Madrid Open, he beat Taro Daniel and upset seventh seed Holger Rune to reach the fourth round of a Masters tournament for the first time in his career. Seeded 26th at the French Open, he defeated Mackenzie McDonald and Luciano Darderi before losing to fourth seed and eventual runner-up Alexander Zverev.
On 22 November, Griekspoor helped the Netherlands reach the final at the 2024 Davis Cup for the first time in their country’s history, after him and Botic van de Zandschulp defeated Germany in the two singles matches.

2025: ATP 1000 quarterfinal, 100th career win
In the beginning of 2025, ranked No. 47 in Dubai, Griekspoor defeated Roman Safiullin saving three match points, and then defending champion and fifth seed Ugo Humbert to reach his first ATP 500-level quarterfinal of the season. Next he reached the semifinals, defeating former champion, world No. 6 and top seed Daniil Medvedev, saving four match points, for the biggest win by ranking and also recording his 100th career win.
At the 2025 BNP Paribas Open, in the second round, Griekspoor took out the world No. 2 and top seed Alexander Zverev after having five match points, winning on the sixth, in three sets with two tiebreaks, having lost to him in his five previous meetings. It was his first top 5 win in his career. He followed that by defeating 29th seed Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard to reach the fourth round at the tournament for the first time. He reached his first Masters quarterfinal and first at this level for a Dutchman at the tournament in 25 years (since Sjeng Schalken in 2000), defeating qualifier Yosuke Watanuki in straight sets. Griekspoor was only the fifth Dutchman to accomplish the feat.

Performance timeline
Current through the 2026 Libéma Open.

ATP Tour finals
Singles: 6 (3 titles, 3 runner-ups)
Doubles: 3 (2 titles, 1 runner-up)
ATP Challenger and ITF Tour finals
Singles: 26 (18 titles, 8 runner-ups)
Doubles: 16 (7 titles, 9 runner-ups)
Wins over top 10 players
Griekspoor has a 7–31 record against players who were, at the time the match was played, ranked in the top 10.

References
External links
Tallon Griekspoor at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Tallon Griekspoor at World Tennis 
Tallon Griekspoor at the Davis Cup (archived former page)
Tallon Griekspoor at Olympics.com
Tallon Griekspoor at Olympedia 
Tallon Griekspoor at TeamNL  (in Dutch)