# Matteo Arnaldi

Matteo Arnaldi (born 22 February 2001) is an Italian  professional tennis player. He has a career high  ATP singles ranking of world No. 30, achieved on 12 August 2024 and a doubles ranking of No. 286, reached on 8 August 2022. He is currently the No. 5 singles player from Italy. He has achieved the first Grand Slam semi-final at the 2026 French Open – Men's singles. Arnaldi was part of the victorious Italian team at the 2023 Davis Cup. He also won the gold medal at the 2022 Mediterranean Games in men's doubles.

Career
2022: ATP debut, first Challenger title
Arnaldi made his ATP Tour main-draw debut at the 2022 Italian Open after winning the pre-qualification wildcard tournament. He lost to Marin Čilić in the first round.
Arnaldi won his maiden ATP Challenger title at the Internazionali di Tennis d'Abruzzo as a wildcard entrant defeating Francesco Maestrelli.
Following Holger Rune's withdrawal to be first alternate at the 2022 ATP Finals, Arnaldi gained entry to participate in the 2022 Next Generation ATP Finals, where he lost all three of his group matches.

2023: Major debut, Davis Cup champ
After his third Challenger title win at the Murcia Open, Arnaldi reached a career-high ATP ranking of No. 102 on 10 April 2023.
He qualified for the ATP 500 Barcelona Open and won his first match against Jaume Munar, before losing to 12th seed Dan Evans in the second round.
Arnaldi also qualified for the Madrid Open and won his first Masters 1000 match over fellow qualifier Benoit Paire Next, he upset world No. 4 Casper Ruud in straight sets for his first career top-10 win to reach the third round, at which point he lost to Jaume Munar in three sets. As a result of his run he made his debut into the top 100 at No. 99 in the rankings on 8 May 2023.
He received a wildcard entry for the main-draw at the Italian Open, where he defeated Diego Schwartzman, before losing to fellow Italian and 18th seed Lorenzo Musetti in the second round.
Arnaldi qualified to make his Grand Slam main-draw debut at the French Open and recorded a win over Daniel Elahi Galán to reach the second round, where he lost to 26th seed Denis Shapovalov. He also made his debut at Wimbledon, losing to Roberto Carballés Baena in the first round.
In Umag, Arnaldi defeated qualifier Jesper de Jong, qualifier Flavio Cobolli and top seed Jiří Lehečka to reach his first ATP semifinal, which he lost to eventual champion Alexei Popyrin in a match lasting more than three hours.
At the Canadian Open, Arnaldi qualified and defeated wildcard entrant Vasek Pospisil in the first round, then fell to world No. 3 Daniil Medvedev in the second. At the US Open, wins over Jason Kubler, Arthur Fils and 16th seed Cameron Norrie saw him reach the fourth round, where his run was ended by world No. 1 Carlos Alcaraz.
 Despite this loss, he reached the world's top 50 at No. 47 on 11 September 2023.
At the start of the Asian swing of the season he qualified for the ATP 500 China Open and reached the second round defeating fellow qualifier JJ Wolf,
before losing to Nicolás Jarry. At the Shanghai Masters he defeated Alexei Popyrin and 21st seed Jan-Lennard Struff to reach the third round, at which point he lost to JJ Wolf.
In November, Arnaldi was part of the Italy team which won the Davis Cup, defeating Alexei Popyrin in the opening singles match of the final.

2024: French success, ATP 1000 semis
Arnaldi recorded his first win at the Australian Open defeating wildcard entrant Adam Walton, before losing to 10th seed Alex de Minaur in the second round.
Ranked No. 43 at the Delray Beach Open he defeated Yoshihito Nishioka firing 21 aces and recording 50 winners, only to lose his next match against Rinky Hijikata in three sets. At the Indian Wells Open he reached the second round by defeating Luca Van Assche, before losing to  before losing to second seed Carlos Alcaraz. At the Miami Open he defeated Arthur Fils 17th seed Alexander Bublik and Denis Shapovalov to reach the fourth round of a Masters for the first time, at which point he lost to Tomáš Macháč.
At the beginning of the clay court season, at the Barcelona Open, he reached the quarterfinals with wins over Arthur Cazaux, eighth seed Sebastian Baez and qualifier Marco Trungelliti. His run was halted by third seed Casper Ruud.
In May, at the French Open, he defeated Arthur Fils, Alexandre Müller and sixth seed Andrey Rublev to reach the fourth round for the first time at this Major, at which stage he was eliminated by Stefanos Tsitsipas.
At the Canadian Open, he reached the semifinals for the first time at a Masters level, defeating qualifier Mackenzie McDonald, 16th seed Karen Khachanov, Alejandro Davidovich Fokina and Kei Nishikori. He lost to Andrey Rublev in straight sets. As a result he reached to the top 30 in the singles rankings on 12 August 2024.
Seeded 30th at the US Open, Arnaldi registered wins over wildcard entrant Zachary Svajda and Roman Safiullin, before losing to Jordan Thompson in the third round.

2025: Madrid quarterfinal, top 5 win
In February at the Dallas Open, Arnaldi defeated qualifier Christopher Eubanks and Alejandro Davidovich Fokina, before losing to Jaume Munar in the quarterfinals. The following week at the Dallas Open, he received a bye as fourth seed and then overcame wildcard entrant Learner Tien and sixth seed Brandon Nakashima to reach the semifinals, at which point he lost to eighth seed Alejandro Davidovich Fokina.
Arnaldi made it through to the third round at Indian Wells with wins over Aleksandar Kovacevic and seventh seed Andrey Rublev and 32nd seed Brandon Nakashima.
In April at the Madrid Open, he defeated qualifier Borna Ćorić, fourth seed and 24-time Grand Slam champion Novak Djokovic, Damir Džumhur and 16th seed Frances Tiafoe to reach the quarterfinals, where he lost to fifth seed Jack Draper.
Seeded eighth at the Geneva Open, Arnaldi recorded wins against Hugo Gaston and Fábián Marozsán to make it into the quarterfinals, at which stage he lost to second seed Novak Djokovic.

2026: First major semifinal, fifth Challenger title
In April at the Monte-Carlo Masters, Arnaldi entered the main-draw as a lucky loser, but was eliminated by qualifier Cristian Garín in the first round. The following month, having entered as an alternate at the Sardegna Open, he won his fifth ATP Challenger title and first since 2023, defeating sixth seed Hubert Hurkacz in the final. Entering as a wildcard at the Italian Open, Arnaldi defeated Jaume Munar and sixth seed Alex De Minaur to reach the third round, where he lost to 32nd seed Rafael Jodar.
At the French Open, Arnaldi defeated 29th seed Tallon Griekspoor, Stefanos Tsitsipas and Raphael Collignon to progress to the fourth round, where he overcame 19th seed Frances Tiafoe in a five set match lasting five hours and 26 minutes to make it through to his first major quarterfinal. He then advanced to the semifinals when his opponent in the last eight, fellow Italian Matteo Berrettini, retired due to injury with Arnaldi leading by a set and a break of serve. Arnaldi withdrew from the tournament before his semifinal against another fellow Italian, 10th seed Flavio Cobolli, because of illness.

Performance timeline
ATP Challenger and ITF Futures finals
Singles 11 (7–4)
Doubles 2 (1–1)
Wins over top 10 players
Matteo Arnaldi has a 6–17 (26.09%)  record against players who were, at the time the match was played, ranked in the top 10.

*As of 8 May 2026

Notes
References
External links
Matteo Arnaldi at the Association of Tennis Professionals
Matteo Arnaldi at World Tennis
Matteo Arnaldi at Olympics.com