# Eduardo Schwank

Eduardo Jonatan Schwank (Spanish pronunciation: [eˈðwaɾðo ˈʃwaŋk]; also known as Schwanka; born 23 April 1986) is a retired professional tennis player from Argentina. In 2011, he reached the finals of the French Open in men's doubles partnering Juan Sebastián Cabal and of the US Open in mixed doubles partnering Gisela Dulko. He was coached by Javier Nalbandian, the brother of David Nalbandian.
Schwank's family background is from the German-speaking part of Switzerland.

Junior career
In his final year on the junior circuit in 2004, Schwank had a record of 39-4 winning five tournaments, with his biggest title the Banana Bowl defeating Pablo Andújar in the final. Schwank finished no. 2 in the rankings behind Gaël Monfils.

Professional career
2006
In 2006, he won four consecutive Futures events: the former two in Argentina, the latter two in Bolivia.

2007
In 2007 he won a Challenger title in Medellín, defeating Chris Guccione in the final. He also won three consecutive Futures events. He won the bronze medal in singles and the gold medal in men's doubles at the 2007 Pan American Games in Rio de Janeiro.

2008
In April 2008, Schwank won two consecutive Challenger events, the first in Cremona, Italy and the second in Rome, Italy. On May 12, 2008, a hotel in which Schwank was staying while competing in a Challenger event in Bordeaux, France caught fire. Schwank's room was engulfed by the blaze, which destroyed his laptop, his passport, as well as the prize money he had earned from the Rome Challenger tournament. Schwank was not in his room at the time. He ended up winning the tournament, making that his third consecutive Challenger title.
He was involved in a legal battle after reportedly being accused of responsibility for the blaze by leaving an oven switched on in his room. He denied the charges.
At the 2008 French Open, Schwank defeated former world no. 1 Carlos Moyá in the first round. He was also victorious in his next match, but was defeated in the third round by Paul-Henri Mathieu in four sets.

2011
Schwank reached the final of the French Open in men's doubles partnering Juan Sebastián Cabal. In the final, they lost to Max Mirnyi and Daniel Nestor in three tight sets with a tiebreak in the first set. He also reached the final of the US Open in mixed doubles partnering Gisela Dulko. They lost to Jack Sock and Melanie Oudin in a super-tiebreak.

2012
In 2012, Schwank qualified for the French Open and advanced to the third round, where he lost to Rafael Nadal. He also teamed with Gisela Dulko in mixed doubles, and they beat Serena Williams and Bob Bryan in the first round. Schwank, partnering Juan Ignacio Chela, reached third round of Wimbledon 2012 doubles and lost to Daniele Bracciali and Julian Knowle.  At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he partnered with David Nalbandian in the men's doubles, but they were knocked out in the first round.

Grand Slam finals
Doubles: 1 (0–1)
Mixed doubles: 1 (0–1)
ATP career finals
Doubles: 3 (1 title, 2 runners-up)
Team competition finals: 1 (1 runner-up)
ATP Challenger and ITF Futures finals
Singles: 27 (16–11)
Doubles: 29 (21–8)
Performance timelines
Singles
Doubles
References
External links

Eduardo Schwank at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Eduardo Schwank at World Tennis 
Eduardo Schwank at the Davis Cup (archived) 
Eduardo Schwank at ESPN.com 
Eduardo Schwank at Olympedia 
Eduardo Schwank at Olympics.com
Schwank world ranking history