# Arthur Rinderknech

Arthur Rinderknech (; born 23 July 1995) is a French professional tennis player. He has a career-high ATP singles ranking of world No. 24 achieved on 4 May 2026 and a best doubles ranking of No. 104 reached on 16 March 2026. He is currently the No. 2 singles player from France.
His most notable career achievement is a runner-up at the 2025 Shanghai Masters, an ATP 1000-level event. He was defeated by his cousin, Valentin Vacherot, in the final. 
Rinderknech represents France at the Davis Cup.

Early life
Rinderknech was born in Gassin, France, to parents Pascal Rinderknech and Virginie Paquet. He started taking tennis lessons in his early childhood, at age 6, and rapidly took part in junior tournaments.

Professional career
2018–2020: Major singles and doubles debut
Rinderknech made his major main draw debut as a wildcard at the 2018 French Open in doubles partnering Florian Lakat.
Rinderknech received a main draw invitation to singles at the 2020 French Open, where he lost to Aljaž Bedene in the first round. He also got a wildcard in doubles, partnering with compatriot Manuel Guinard. The pair reached the second round.

2021: ATP debut, First Major win, Maiden doubles final
In his debut on the ATP Tour in March, Rinderknech qualified for the main draw of the 2021 Open 13 in Marseille, France, where he reached the quarterfinals, beating Alejandro Davidovich Fokina, before losing to fellow countryman Ugo Humbert.
In May at the 2021 ATP Lyon Open, Rinderknech recorded his first win, defeating 6th seeded Jannik Sinner, the first top-20 win in his career, to reach his second career quarterfinal as a lucky loser.
Rinderknech qualified for the 2021 Wimbledon Championships main draw for the first time in his career. In the first round he lost in only the second 12 games all singles supertiebreak since that rule began two years previously against Oscar Otte 6–4, 3–6, 2–6, 7–6(5), 12–13(2), the other match being the Federer-Djokovic 2019 final.
In July, he reached the quarterfinals as a qualifier at the 2021 Swedish Open in Båstad defeating 4th seed John Millman. As a result, he made his top 100 debut on 19 July 2021. At the 2021 Swiss Open Gstaad Rinderknech defeated second seed and World No. 16 Roberto Bautista Agut, his second top-20 win, to reach the quarterfinals.
The following week, he reached the semifinals for the first time in his career at the Kitzbühel Open, losing to eventual winner Casper Ruud. As a result, he reached a new career-high of World No. 79 on 2 August 2021.
At the 2021 US Open he entered directly into the main draw for the first time and also reached the second round of a Grand Slam for the first time in his career defeating Miomir Kecmanović after a comeback from two sets down 6–7(10), 3–6, 7–5, 6–3, 6–4.
At the 2021 Moselle Open he reached his first ATP final in his career partnering Hugo Nys where they were defeated by Hubert Hurkacz and Jan Zieliński from Poland. Following a quarterfinal appearance at the 2021 Stockholm Open where he lost to defending champion, 3rd seed Denis Shapovalov, he made his debut in the top 60 at World No. 58 on 15 November 2021.

2022: First ATP singles final, Top 50 debut, French No. 1
Rinderknech started his 2022 season by representing France at the ATP Cup. France was in Group B alongside Russia, Italy, and Australia. He lost his first match to Roman Safiullin of Russia. He lost his second match to Jannik Sinner. He won his final match by beating James Duckworth of Australia. France ended in fourth place in Group B.
At the Adelaide International 2, he defeated 3rd seed and runner-up of the first tournament, Karen Khachanov, in the quarterfinals, and qualifier and compatriot, Corentin Moutet, in the semifinals to reach his first final on the ATP Tour. In the final, he pushed Australian wildcard, Thanasi Kokkinakis, to three sets, but he ended up losing the match. As a result of reaching the final, he made his debut in the world's top 50 at No. 48 on 17 January 2022. 
Ranked No. 48 in his debut at the Australian Open, he won his first match at this Major defeating Australian Alexei Popyrin in the first round. He was set to play 24th seed, Dan Evans, in the second round, but he withdrew due to a wrist injury.
In February, Rinderknech competed at the Qatar ExxonMobil Open. He beat seventh seed, Alexander Bublik, in the second round. He then upset top seed and world No. 12, Denis Shapovalov, in the quarterfinals which not only earned him his third Top 20 win of his career, but he also reached his second semifinal of the year. He lost in his semifinal match to third seed, world No. 22, and defending champion, Nikoloz Basilashvili. In Dubai, he fell in the first round to eighth seed, world No. 15, and 2018 champion, Roberto Bautista Agut.
Representing France during the Davis Cup tie against Ecuador, Rinderknech played one match and won over Emilio Gómez; France ended up beating Ecuador 4–0.
At the Indian Wells Masters, he lost in the first round to Benjamin Bonzi. Seeded third at the Arizona Classic, an ATP Challenger tournament in Phoenix, he was defeated in the second round by Liam Broady. At the Miami Open, he recorded his first win at the Masters 1000 level against Laslo Djere but lost in the second round to eighth seed, world No. 10, and defending champion, Hubert Hurkacz.
Starting his clay-court season at the Monte-Carlo Masters, Rinderknech was eliminated in the first round by 2019 champion Fabio Fognini. At the Lyon Open, he lost in the first round to Holger Rune. Ranked No. 60 at the French Open, he was defeated in the first round by Bublik.
As the top seed at the Poznań Open, an ATP Challenger tournament, Rinderknech won his fourth ATP Challenger title by beating Tomás Barrios Vera in the final.
Rinderknech started his grass-court season at the BOSS Open in Stuttgart, Germany. He upset eighth seed and compatriot, Ugo Humbert, in the first round in three sets. He lost in the second round to compatriot Benjamin Bonzi. At the Halle Open, he fell in the first round of qualifying to Marc-Andrea Hüsler. Ranked No. 62 at Wimbledon, he lost in the first round to 13th seed, world No. 16, and last year semifinalist, Denis Shapovalov, in five sets.
After Wimbledon, Rinderknech competed at the Salzburg Open, an ATP Challenger tournament in Austria. As the top seed, he lost in the second round to Austrian wildcard Lukas Neumayer.
At the US Open, he recorded his third Major career win against compatriot Quentin Halys.
At the 2022 Moselle Open in Metz, he lost in the quarterfinals for the second time in the season to world No. 10 and second seed Hubert Hurkacz. At the 2022 Tel Aviv Open he also reached the quarterfinals defeating third seed Diego Schwartzman but lost to Roman Safiullin for the second time in the season. At the 2022 Gijón Open he reached his third tour-level semifinal for the season saving nine match points against second seed Pablo Carreño Busta in an over three hours match. At the 2022 Swiss Indoors he defeated fourth seed Marin Čilić in the first round after qualifying for the main draw. He then won against Alex Molčan to reach the quarterfinals. As a result, he became the French No. 1 in the rankings at world No. 42 on 31 October 2022 ahead of Adrian Mannarino.
Rinderknech received a wildcard to participate in his home tournament, the 2022 Rolex Paris Masters for a second year in a row.

2023: United Cup debut, First Major third round
Rinderknech started his 2023 season by representing France at the 2023 United Cup. France was in Group F alongside Argentina and Croatia. Against Argentina, he beat Francisco Cerúndolo. France won the tie over Argentina 5–0. Against Croatia, he lost to Borna Ćorić in two tiebreaker sets. Croatia ended up winning the tie over France 3–2. France didn't qualify for the knockout stage; they ended second in Group F. Last year finalist at the Adelaide International 2, he was defeated in the first round by Marc-Andrea Hüsler. At the Australian Open, he lost in the first round to qualifier Yosuke Watanuki.
In February, Rinderknech reached the second round at the Open Sud de France in Montpellier, losing to third seed and world No. 23, Borna Ćorić. At the Rotterdam Open, he was defeated in the first round of qualifying by Jurij Rodionov. In Marseille, he lost in the first round to Leandro Riedi. As the top seed at the Teréga Open Pau–Pyrénées, he reached the semifinals where he was defeated by compatriot, Luca Van Assche, who ended up winning the tournament.

2024: Two ATP quarterfinals and Masters third rounds
Rinderknech reached his first quarterfinal for the season in Marseille as an alternate, defeating Maxime Cressy and eight seed Jiří Lehečka in straight sets. In February, he won his sixth Challenger title at the Play In Challenger in Lille, France, defeating Joris De Loore in the final. In May, he also reached the quarterfinals in Lyon but withdrew from his match against Luciano Darderi.
In July, Rinderknech recorded his first win at Wimbledon defeating Kei Nishikori in the first round before losing to Taylor Fritz in the second round.
He reached the third round of a Masters at the 2024 National Bank Open in Montreal as a qualifier, with main draw wins over compatriot Adrian Mannarino and Flavio Cobolli. As a result he returned to the top 60 in the rankings on 12 August 2024. At the US Open, he defeated Christopher Eubanks in five sets with a super tiebreak. He lost to sixth seed Andrey Rublev in a five set match, after being two sets up.

2025: Best season: Two top 5 wins, Shanghai final, top 30
In June, Rinderknech reached the second round at the Queen's Championships by defeating Ben Shelton in the first round, his first top 10 win.
In July, Rinderknech reached the second round at Wimbledon by defeating third seed Alexander Zverev, his first top 5 win. He then reached the third round at the tournament for the first time by defeating Cristian Garín in five sets over two days.
Rinderknech reached his first semifinal of the year at the Generali Open Kitzbühel. He lost to fellow countryman Arthur Cazaux in the semifinal.
In September at the 2025 US Open, Rinderknech reached the fourth round of a Grand Slam for the first time in his career.
At the 2025 Shanghai Masters Rinderknech reached his first final at a Masters 1000. In the third round, he defeated Alexander Zverev for a second time in the season, recording his second top 5 win. Rinderknech went on to upset 15th seed Jiří Lehečka in the fourth round, 12th seed Felix Auger-Aliassime in the quarterfinal and 16th seed Daniil Medvedev in the semifinal to reach the final. As a result he reached the top 30 at world No. 28 on 13 October 2025. He lost to qualifier Valentin Vacherot in the final.

2026: Career high ranking, doubles Masters final
In Australia, Rinderknech represented France at the 2026 United Cup, however they failed to make it past the round robin stage. He then lost in the first round of the Australian Open in 4 sets to Fábián Marozsán.
He then lost out to Stefanos Tsitsipas in Rotterdam and, the eventual champion, Carlos Alcaraz in Qatar. He did make the quarter-final of the Dubai Championships, defeating Jack Draper en-route, however lost out to Andrey Rublev. 
At Indian Wells, Rinderknech lost in the singles in the third round to Alcaraz, despite taking the first set. However, in the doubles, partnered with his cousin, Valentin Vacherot, the pair defeated Djokovic & Tsitsipas en-route to their first doubles Masters final. They lost out to Guido Andreozzi & Manuel Guinard in the final.
Rinderknech then failed to make it past the second round of any tournament, apart from retiring in the third round of Madrid, until the Geneva Open, where he lost out to Alexander Bublik in the quarter-final. On the 4th May, due to a lack of points to defend, Rinderknech reached World No. 24, his highest ranking to date. 
At Roland Garros, the Frenchman lost out to eventual quarter-finalist Matteo Berrettini in the second round in straights. 
Moving into the grass season, despite losing in the first round in singles at the Libéma Open, he teamed up with Zizou Bergs to reach the doubles final in the event, losing out to Sander Arends & David Pel in the final.

Personal life
Rinderknech's mother, Virginie, is a former professional tennis player on Women's Tour. He has three sisters, Mathilde, Julie and Flore.
His family is deeply involved in tennis. Chloé Paquet and Monégasque tennis players Benjamin Balleret and Valentin Vacherot are his cousins.
Rinderknech played college tennis at Texas A&M University. He is married to a former collegiate player he met there, Hortense Boscher.
Rinderknech is a fan of French football club AS Saint-Étienne.

Performance timelines
Singles
Current through the 2026 Wimbledon Championships.

Doubles
Current through the 2026 Indian Wells Open.

ATP Masters 1000 finals
Singles: 1 (runner-up)
Doubles: 1 (runner-up)
ATP Tour finals
Singles: 2 (2 runner-ups)
Doubles: 3 (3 runner-ups)
ATP Challenger Tour finals
Singles: 8 (6 titles, 2 runner-ups)
Doubles: 4 (3 titles, 1 runner-up)
ITF Tour finals
Singles: 10 (5 titles, 5 runner-ups)
Doubles: 4 (2 titles, 2 runner-ups)
Wins against Top 10 players
Rinderknech has a 3–18 (14.29%) record against players who were, at the time the match was played, ranked in the top 10.

Key: (Rk) first use, opponent rank; (Rd) round; (Rk) 2nd use, player rank; (Ref) reference; (F) final; (SF) semifinal; (QF) quarterfinal; (#R) rounds 4, 3, 2, 1; (RR) round-robin stage; (Q#) qualifying rounds or stages (3), 2, 1.

References
External links
Arthur Rinderknech at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Arthur Rinderknech at World Tennis 
Arthur Rinderknech at the Davis Cup (archived former page)