# Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard

Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard (French pronunciation: [pɛtʃi pɛʁikɑʁ]; born 8 July 2003) is a French professional tennis player. He has a career-high ATP singles ranking of world No. 29, achieved on 24 February 2025 and a doubles ranking of No. 204, reached on 14 July 2025. He is currently the No. 9 singles player from France. 
One of the most powerful servers in professional tennis, at the 2025 Wimbledon Championships he broke the tournament record with a 153-mile-per-hour (246 km/h) serve, and set the record for the fastest second serve ever with a serve of 147 mph (237 km/h).
Mpetshi Perricard has won two ATP Tour singles titles. He represents France at the Davis Cup.

Early life
Mpetshi Perricard was born in Lyon, to parents Ghislain 'Guylain' Mpetshi-Kalongo and Sylvie Perricard; his father emigrated from Congo to France in the 1990s.
He started taking tennis lessons in his early childhood.

Juniors
Mpetshi Perricard had good results on the ITF junior circuit. He won the boys' doubles title at the 2021 French Open, with compatriot Arthur Fils. There, he also reached the semifinals in the boys' singles category, losing to Fils.
He reached an ITF junior combined ranking of world No. 4 on 5 July 2021.

Professional career
2023: First Challenger title, top 200
Mpetshi Perricard won his first ATP Challenger singles title at the 2023 León Open, defeating Juan Pablo Ficovich in the finals.
He received a wildcard for the 2023 French Open for his Grand Slam debut, but lost to Major debutant Genaro Alberto Olivieri.
In June, Mpetshi Perricard made his ATP Tour debut at the Rosmalen Open as a qualifier, losing in the first round to Jordan Thompson.
In October, Mpetshi Perricard won his first two matches on the ATP Tour in Antwerp as a qualifier and reached his first ATP quarterfinal, defeating sixth seed Roberto Carballés Baena in the first round, and wildcard and home favorite David Goffin in the second round, but lost in the quarterfinals against the eventual winner of the tournament, Alexander Bublik. As a result he entered the top 200 on 23 October 2023.

2024: First ATP 500 title in Basel, top 30
In January, Mpetshi Pericard participated in his first Australian Open qualifying, but lost in the final round to fellow countryman Hugo Grenier.
In February, Mpetshi Perricard won his first title of the year on the ATP Challenger Tour, his second career title, at the 2024 Lexus Nottingham Challenger, defeating fellow countryman Matteo Martineau in the final. In April, Mpetshi Perricard won back-to-back Challenger titles in Mexico, at the 2024 Morelos Open, defeating Nicolas Mejia in the final, and then at the 2024 GNP Seguros Tennis Open in Acapulco, defeating Adam Walton in the final. As a result, he reached the top 125 on 22 April 2024.
In May, at the 2024 ATP Lyon Open, Mpetshi Perricard won his first title on the ATP Tour as a wildcard with wins over Lorenzo Sonego, Yoshihito Nishioka by walkover, compatriot and qualifier Hugo Gaston, second seed Alexander Bublik and sixth seed Tomás Martín Etcheverry in the final. He became the lowest-ranked titlist in the tournament's history. As a result, he climbed more than 50 spots in the singles rankings to a career-high in the top 70 at world No. 66 on 27 May 2024. He received a wildcard for the 2024 French Open for the second year in a row.
At the beginning of the grass season, he qualified for the 2024 Queen's Club Championships and upset sixth seed Ben Shelton in the first round. As a result he reached the top 60 in the rankings at world No. 59 on 24 June 2024. At the 2024 Wimbledon Championships, Mpetshi Perricard entered the main draw as a lucky loser, having lost to Maxime Janvier in the qualifying rounds. In the first round, he defeated twentieth seed Sebastian Korda in a five-set match with four tiebreaks, producing 51 aces to record his first Major win. He then reached the fourth round by defeating Yoshihito Nishioka in the second round and Emil Ruusuvuori in the third round. He lost in the fourth round to Lorenzo Musetti. Mpetchi Perricard became the first lucky loser to reach the fourth round at the Wimbledon Championships since Dick Norman in 1995.
At the 2024 Swiss Indoors in Basel, Mpetshi Perricard won his first ATP 500 title defeating again Ben Shelton. Ranked No. 50, he became the lowest-ranked champion since the tournament became a tour-level event in 1975. As a result he reached a new career-high ranking of No. 31 on 28 October 2024. On his main draw debut at his home tournament, the 2024 Rolex Paris Masters, where he received a wildcard, he upset 14th seed Frances Tiafoe in three sets. He lost to Karen Khachanov in three sets. As a result, he reached the top 30 on 4 November 2024.

2025: First French Open win
He opened the season by reaching the semifinals in Brisbane, but exited in the first round at the Australian Open. He managed to reach the second round at Indian Wells, but subsequently suffered five exits in his debut match. 
In May, Mpetshi Perricard won his first Challenger title in more than a year at the Paribas Primrose Bordeaux, defeating Nikoloz Basilashvili in the final. He exits in the second round in Hamburg. Later that month, Mpetshi Perricard won his first match at the French Open by defeating Zizou Bergs in the first round. He lost in the second round to Damir Džumhur. 
During the grass season, he exited in the first round in all three tournaments he played, including Wimbledon, where, however, he stood out by taking world number 5, Taylor Fritz, to the fifth set. In the match, he broke the tournament record in the first round with a 153 mph serve, yet still lost the point to Taylor Fritz. 
Reaches semifinals at Winston-Salem Open, exits in US Open debut. In Shanghai he reached the quarterfinals of a Masters 1000 for the first time, defeating Taylor Fritz and earning his first victory against a top 10 player. At the European Open he reached the semifinal, obtaining his second victory against a top 10 player, Lorenzo Musetti. He then exited in the first round at the Swiss Indoors, where he was the defending champion, at the Paris Masters and at the Moselle Open.

2026
He reached the quarterfinals in both Brisbane and Auckland, but starting from the Australian Open he went out in the first round in four consecutive tournaments, and dropped in the rankings to the point of having to play qualifying to enter the main draw of the ATP 500 in Dubai, where he returned to win a match but went out in the second round against Félix Auger-Aliassime. In February, halfway through this losing streak, he parted ways with his long-time coach Emmanuel Planque. The attempted collaboration with Francisco Roig failed after less than a month, due to the better offer received by the latter from the six-time Grand Slam champion Iga Świątek. 
He was again defeated in his debut match in Indian Wells and Miami Open. He manages to enter the draw directly in Monte Carlo Master due to numerous defections, but he also withdraws before taking to the court due to a wrist injury that also prevented him from competing in Madrid. He returned to action in Rome, where he lost in the second round to Lorenzo Musetti.   
He tried to defend his Challenger title at Bordeaux, but he was defeated in quarterfinal by Quentin Halys. At Geneva, an ATP 250, he lost in first round against Stefanos Tsitsipas. At Roland Garros, he lost again in first round, against Novak Djokovic.      
In preparation for Wimbledon, he took part in the Stuttgart Open, where he reached the quarterfinals only to be eliminated by Alexander Bublik in two tie breaks. He also made it through qualifying at Queen's, only to be defeated in his debut by compatriot Corentin Moutet. At Wimbledon, he suffered another first-round exit, losing in four sets to Yannick Hanfmann.

Playing style
Mpetshi Perricard is one of the most powerful servers in professional tennis, with an average first serve of 135 mph and average second serve of 123 mph on average as of December 2024. Although his ball toss is not as high as that of other tennis players, he is able to generate significant power with his height and athleticism.

Personal life
Mpetshi Perricard's family is deeply involved in multiple sports. His father, Ghislain, is a former semi-professional footballer and his mother, Sylvie, is a former volleyball player.
He has two sisters, Ariane and Daphnée, the latter of whom is also a tennis player.

Performance timeline
Singles
Current through the 2026 French Open.

ATP Tour finals
Singles: 2 (2 titles)
ATP Challenger Tour finals
Singles: 5 (5 titles)
Doubles: 1 (runner-up)
ITF World Tennis Tour finals
Singles: 3 (1 title, 2 runner-ups)
Doubles: 4 (3 titles, 1 runner-up)
Junior Grand Slam finals
Doubles: 1 (title)
Wins against Top 10 players
Mpetshi Perricard has a 2–9 (18.18%)  record against players who were, at the time the match was played, ranked in the top 10.

Key: (Rk) first use, opponent rank; (Rd) round; (Rk) 2nd use, player rank; (Ref) reference; (F) final; (SF) semifinal; (QF) quarterfinal; (#R) rounds 4, 3, 2, 1; (RR) round-robin stage; (Q#) qualifying rounds or stages (3), 2, 1.

References
External links
Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard at World Tennis 
Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard at the Davis Cup
Giovanni Mpetshi Perricard on Instagram