# Julian Alonso

Julián Alonso Pintor (Spanish pronunciation: [xuˈljan aˈlonso pinˈtoɾ]; born 2 August 1977) is a Spanish-American former professional tennis player, who turned professional in 1995 and retired in 2003. He was known in tennis because of his powerful serve and Forehand compared with the Goran Ivanišević´s service. In 1997, playing against Ivanisevic (2nd seeded), in Long Island, beat him for first Top 10 victory en route to semifinal and in that match fired a 143 mph serve to become just third player (Philippoussis, Rusedski) to register a serve of at least 143. He is the founder of ELITE TENNIS TEAM focusing on junior development and also is coaching pro players  Leylah Fernandez, Arantxa Rus  as many others before like, Qinwen Zheng, Mirjana Lučić-Baroni, Sabine Lisicki, Ajla Tomljanović, Varvara Lepchenko,
Renata Zarazúa, Marco Cecchinato and Nicolas Almagro.
Married to Arantxa Vivanco and father of two children.

Tennis career
Alonso was awarded the ATP Newcomer of the Year prize after winning his first ATP title in Santiago and finishing in the Top 30 in 1997.  In the final of the tournament, he defeated Marcelo Ríos,  World No. 1 ranking 6–1, 6–2 in 46 min. Previously, that same year, Tim Henman after being defeated by Alonso at "The Lipton" Key Biscayne (current Miami open) declared: "Julian will be the next number 1 in the World before Wimbledon"
After this promising start, however, his career is considered underwhelming; he only won one more title (Bologna, 1998) and retired in 2003 after half year playing only Challengers. He confessed that the decline of his career started with the relationship with Martina Hingis. The pressure of the media and his mother-in-law made Alonso's ranking and self-confidence fall. He reached his career-high ATP singles ranking of world No. 29 in June 1998 (after winning his second and final title). He used to play doubles in Davis Cup Spanish team with Joan Balcells during Manolo Santana captaincy, and several single matches.

ATP career finals
Singles: 3 (2 titles, 1 runner-up)
Doubles: 3 (2 titles, 1 runner-up)
ATP Challenger and ITF Futures finals
Singles: 4 (2–2)
Doubles: 6 (2–4)
Performance timeline
Singles
Doubles
References
External links
Julián Alonso at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Julián Alonso at World Tennis 
Julián Alonso at the Davis Cup (archived)