# Todd Woodbridge

Todd Andrew Woodbridge, OAM (born 2 April 1971) is an Australian broadcaster and former professional tennis player. During his playing career, he formed multiple Grand-Slam winning doubles partnerships with Mark Woodforde (together, nicknamed "The Woodies") and later Jonas Björkman.
He is among the most successful doubles players of all time, having won 16 Grand Slam men's doubles titles (nine Wimbledons, three US Opens, three Australian Opens and one French Open), and a further six Grand Slam mixed doubles titles (three US Opens, one French Open, one Wimbledon, one Australian Open). Additionally, he was a gold medalist with Woodforde at the 1996 Summer Olympics to complete a career Golden Slam. In total he has won 83 ATP doubles titles. Woodbridge reached the World No. 1 doubles ranking in July 1992. 
Woodbridge was awarded the Medal of the Order of the Australia in the 1997 Australia Day Honours "for service to sport as gold medallist at the Atlanta Olympic Games, 1996". In 2002, he was inducted into the Australian Institute of Sport 'Best of the Best'.
In 2014, alongside Woodforde, the International Tennis Federation (ITF) presented him with its highest accolade, the Philippe Chatrier Award, for his contributions to tennis.

Tennis career
Juniors
In juniors, Woodbridge made the finals of the Junior Australian Open in 1987 and 1989, and Wimbledon in 1989.

Pro tour
He is best known as one of the top doubles players in the world for most of the 1990s and into the early 2000s (decade). His primary doubles partnerships were first with fellow Australian Mark Woodforde and later with Swede Jonas Björkman. Woodbridge and Woodforde are often referred to as "The Woodies" in the tennis world. Woodbridge also had a career high singles ranking of 19 after reaching the semifinals of Wimbledon in 1997, beating Michael Chang, Marcos Ondruska, Alex Rădulescu, Patrick Rafter and Nicolas Kiefer before losing to Pete Sampras. He did however have the distinction of being one of only seven players to beat Sampras at Wimbledon, knocking him out in the first round in 1989 (Sampras's first ever Wimbledon match). Woodbridge is also notable for being one of only 17 players in the Open Era (as of 2017) to achieve a triple bagel, against Johan Örtegren in qualifying at the 2001 Wimbledon Championships.
The Woodies won a record 61 ATP doubles titles as a team, including 11 Grand Slam events. Woodforde and Woodbridge won a gold medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, and reached the final to win a silver medal at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. In the fourth set tie-breaker against Canadians Sébastien Lareau and Daniel Nestor, Woodbridge served a double fault to lose the match.
After Woodforde retired from the tour in 2000, Woodbridge established a partnership with Björkman that resulted in five Grand Slam titles in four years. At the end of 2004, Björkman ended his partnership with Woodbridge. According to an interview Woodbridge granted to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Björkman wanted him to play more weeks on the tour, but Woodbridge wanted to limit his time away from his family as much as possible. Woodbridge then took on India's Mahesh Bhupathi as his new partner, who had just been dumped by Belarusian Max Mirnyi. Coincidentally, Björkman and Mirnyi ended up partnering together.
Woodbridge announced his retirement at the 2005 Wimbledon Championships after 17 years as a tennis professional and 83 ATP tournament doubles titles, an all-time record at the time now surpassed by the Bryan brothers. He was a member of the Australian Davis Cup Team, playing the most ties (32) of any player. According to the ATP website, he finished his career with US$10,095,245 in prize money.

Post-playing career
Woodbridge was a personality of the Seven Network from 2006 to 2018, working for Seven Sport as a tennis analyst/commentator/host on the network's summer of tennis coverage, including the Australian Open.
He also became an ambassador for bowel cancer awareness group "Let's Beat Bowel Cancer".
In 2007, he competed on the sixth season of Dancing with the Stars being the fourth contestant eliminated on 20 March that year. In 2008 and 2009, Woodbridge aligned himself closely to the sailing community through his commitments at Hamilton Island Race Week hosting tennis clinics and wine tasting events.
In 2008, he presented the History Channel's special The History of Australian Sport: Tennis, a documentary looking back at Australia's love affair with the roots of the Grand Slam of the Asia Pacific. 
Woodbridge served as the tournament director for the 2009 Australian Open legends event. In July 2009, he was appointed coach of the Australian Davis Cup Team, taking on a newly expanded, full-time position that merges a role as the national men's coach overseeing the male player development pathway with the Davis Cup coaching job.
On 26 January 2010 (Australia Day), Woodbridge and Woodford (the Woodies) were inducted to the Australian Tennis Hall of Fame for their achievements in tennis. As a part of the induction ceremony, their bronzed statues were placed with other great Australian tennis players at the Melbourne Park. In July 2010 The Woodies were inducted to the International Tennis Hall of Fame. In January 2011, Woodbridge was confronted on court by Belgian player Kim Clijsters for comments he made via SMS to Rennae Stubbs alleging Clijsters was pregnant. In June that year, Woodbridge started anchoring the Seven Network's Wimbledon coverage. In 2016, he anchored overnight sessions of the Rio Olympics for Seven. Woodbridge has also been involved in other programs for Seven, including golf broadcasts. In April 2018, he hosted the morning sessions of the 2018 Commonwealth Games on the Gold Coast. Seven's 2018 Wimbledon telecast would be his final duties at the network, before defecting to arch-rival Nine, which he later said on-air was a "big decision" for him after being "very comfortable" being a part of the Seven family for years.
Later in 2018, it was announced Woodbridge had been signed by the Nine Network for Wide World of Sports, namely to feature as part of their Australian Open, after winning the lucrative broadcast rights for six years, shaking-up Australia's sports broadcasting landscape for the first time in more than four decades, as well as The Ashes. He is currently a fill-in sport presenter on Nine News Melbourne. Woodbridge has reported on the network's PGA Tour telecasts.
Woodbridge has been a presenter on Victorian travel show Postcards since 2022 and has also featured on various other network and local GTV-9 programming, such as Today and a Millionaire Hot Seat special focusing on Wimbledon.
Woodbridge had planned to compete in the 2021 Margaret Court Cup in Albury, but was prevented from doing so by domestic border closures.
On 10 August 2023, reports emerged that Woodbridge had been appointed as the host of an Australian version of Tipping Point Australia for the network, after Millionaire Hot Seat was axed on 4 August 2023. It is the first internationally licensed version of the popular UK program of the same name. It was confirmed by Nine in September. The first 'sneak peek' episode debuted on Christmas Eve 2023. The show officially premiered on 29 January 2024.
In August 2025, Woodbridge won the Bert Newton Award Silver Logie for Most Popular Presenter at the 65th Annual TV Week Logie Awards for his work between 2024 and 2025 hosting Tipping Point Australia, the Paris Olympics & Paralympics and commentating the Australian Open.

Personal life
He was born in Sydney and raised in Woolooware by his parents, Kevin and Barbara. He has two older brothers, Gregory and Warren. He attended Woolooware High School, then turned professional in 1988.
Todd Woodbridge and Natasha Provis were married on 8 April 1995 in Melbourne; they have two children, Zara and Beau.
He suffered a non-fatal heart attack in October 2022.

Grand Slam finals
Doubles: 20 (16–4)
Mixed doubles: 14 (6–8)
Career finals
Singles: 9 (2–7)
Doubles: 114 (83–31)
Performance timelines
Singles
1This event was held in Stockholm through 1994, Essen in 1995, and Stuttgart from 1996 through 2001.

Doubles
References
External links

Todd Woodbridge at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Todd Woodbridge at World Tennis 
Todd Woodbridge at the Davis Cup (archived) 
Todd Woodbridge at Tennis Australia