# 2020 French Open – Men's singles

Three-time defending champion Rafael Nadal defeated Novak Djokovic in the final, 6–0, 6–2, 7–5 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2020 French Open. It was his record-extending 13th French Open title and 20th major title overall, equaling Roger Federer's all-time record of men's singles titles. For an Open Era record fourth time in his career, Nadal did not lose a set during the tournament (following 2008, 2010, and 2017). For the first time in French Open history, neither the men's nor women's singles champions lost a set during their tournaments. Nadal also became the first player, male or female, to win 100 matches at the French Open, and only the second man, after Federer at the Australian Open and Wimbledon, to win 100 matches at the same major.
Djokovic was attempting to become the first man in the Open Era to achieve a double career Grand Slam, a feat he would accomplish the following year. Instead, he suffered his worst-ever defeat in a major final, winning only seven games and suffering his first, and only bagel (0–6 set).
Taylor Fritz and Lorenzo Sonego played the longest tiebreak in French Open history in the third round: Sonego won the third set tiebreak 19–17.
Jannik Sinner was the first man to reach the quarterfinals on his tournament debut since Nadal won in 2005, and the youngest quarterfinalist since Djokovic in 2006. He was the first man born in the 21st century to reach a major quarterfinal. 
Nadal and Sinner's quarterfinal match was the first men's match to start at night in French Open history. Their match, played under cold and windy conditions, started after 10:00 pm CEST and finished at 1:26 am, the first French Open match to finish after midnight.

Seeds
All seedings per ATP rankings.

Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.

Draw
Key

Finals
Top half
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Bottom half
Section 5
Section 6
Section 7
Section 8
Other entry information
Wild cards
Protected ranking
Qualifiers
Lucky losers
Withdrawals
References
External links
2020 French Open – Men's draws and results at the International Tennis Federation