# 2023 Wimbledon Championships – Men's singles

Carlos Alcaraz defeated four-time defending champion Novak Djokovic in the final, 1–6, 7–6(8–6), 6–1, 3–6, 6–4 to win the gentlemen's singles tennis title at the 2023 Wimbledon Championships. It was his first Wimbledon title and second major title overall.
Alcaraz, Djokovic, and Daniil Medvedev were in contention for the world No. 1 singles ranking. Alcaraz retained the No. 1 ranking with his victory, and became the first player to qualify for the year-end championships.
For the first time since 2002, the top seed and the winner of the event was not a member of the Big Four, halting their streak at 19-consecutive Wimbledon titles. This tournament marked the final Wimbledon singles appearance of two-time champion, two-time Olympic gold medalist, and former world No. 1 Andy Murray. He lost in the second round to Stefanos Tsitsipas.

Seeds
Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.

Draw
Key

Finals
Top half
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Bottom half
Section 5
Section 6
Section 7
Section 8
Seeded players
The following are the seeded players. Seedings are based on ATP rankings as of 26 June 2023. Rankings and points before are as of 3 July 2023.
No ranking points were awarded for the 2022 tournament due to the ban on Russian and Belarusian players. However, because the tournament takes place one week later this year, players are defending points from tournaments that took place during the week of 11 July 2022 (Båstad, Newport, and 2022 ATP Challenger Tour tournaments). Players who are not defending any points from those tournaments will have their 19th-best result (shown in brackets in the table below) replaced with their points from the 2023 Wimbledon Championships.

† The player is defending points from Båstad, Newport, or one or more ATP Challenger Tour events (Porto, Rome, Lüdenscheid or Amersfoort).

Withdrawn players
The following players would have been seeded, but withdrew before the tournament began.

† The player is defending points from Båstad or Braunschweig.

Other entry information
Wild cards
Source:

Protected ranking
Qualifiers
Lucky losers
Withdrawals
The entry list was released based on the ATP rankings for the week of 22 May 2023.

‡ – withdrew from entry list before qualifying began
@ – withdrew from entry list after qualifying began
§ – withdrew from main draw

References
External links
Entry list
Draw