# 2020 Australian Open – Men's singles

Defending champion Novak Djokovic defeated Dominic Thiem in the final, 6–4, 4–6, 2–6, 6–3, 6–4 to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2020 Australian Open. It was his record-extending eighth Australian Open title and 17th major title overall. With the win, Djokovic regained the world No. 1 singles ranking after Rafael Nadal lost in the quarterfinals, and became the first player since Ken Rosewall to win major titles in three different decades. The match also marked the first time Djokovic came back to win a major final after trailing two sets to one, having lost each of the last seven times this happened. Thiem became the first Austrian to reach the final. This was Thiem's third runner-up finish in as many major finals (though he would go on to win the US Open later that year). The final also marked the first time in the Open Era that three consecutive men's major finals went to five sets, following the finals at the 2019 Wimbledon Championships and the 2019 US Open. 
This marked the final Australian Open appearance for former world No. 1, six-time champion, and 20-time major champion Roger Federer. With his third-round win, Federer became the first player to win 100 matches at the Australian Open. He also became the first player to earn 100 match wins at two majors (the other being Wimbledon). Federer's semifinal encounter with Djokovic marked their 50th and final professional meeting; Djokovic won to end their head-to-head at 27–23 in his favor. This was also the first Australian Open appearance for future world No. 1 and two-time champion Jannik Sinner; he lost to Márton Fucsovics in the second round.

Seeds
All seedings per ATP rankings.

Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.

Draw
Key

Finals
Top half
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Bottom half
Section 5
Section 6
Section 7
Section 8
Seeded players
The following are the seeded players. Seedings are based on ATP rankings on 13 January 2020, while ranking and points before are as of 20 January 2020. Points after are as of 3 February 2020.

† This column shows either the player's points from the 2019 tournament or his 18th best result (shown in brackets). Only ranking points counting towards the player's ranking as of 13 January 2020 are reflected in the column.

Withdrawn players
The following players would have been seeded, but they withdrew from the event.

Other entry information
Wild cards
Protected ranking
Qualifiers
Lucky losers
Withdrawals
‡ – withdrew from entry list before qualifying began
@ – withdrew from entry list after qualifying began
§ – withdrew from main draw

Championship match ratings
504 thousand on ESPN, in the USA.

Notes
References
External links
Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) – 2020 Australian Open Men's Singles draw
2020 Australian Open – Men's draws and results at the International Tennis Federation