# 2021 Wimbledon Championships – Men's singles

Two-time defending champion Novak Djokovic defeated Matteo Berrettini in the final, 6–7(4–7), 6–4, 6–4, 6–3 to win the gentlemen's singles tennis title at the 2021 Wimbledon Championships.
It was his sixth Wimbledon title and record-equaling 20th major men's singles title overall, tying Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal's all-time record total. Djokovic became the first man to win the Australian Open, French Open and Wimbledon titles in the same calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969, the second to achieve the Surface Slam (winning majors on three different surfaces in a calendar year), after Nadal in 2010, and the fifth in the Open Era to win the Channel Slam (French Open—Wimbledon double).
Djokovic and Daniil Medvedev were in contention for the world No. 1 singles ranking; Djokovic retained the top ranking when Medvedev lost in the fourth round.
This event marked the final professional singles appearance of 20-time major champion, eight-time Wimbledon champion, and former world No. 1 Roger Federer; he lost in the quarterfinals to Hubert Hurkacz. Federer was the oldest man in the Open Era to reach the Wimbledon quarterfinals, and the oldest man to reach a major quarterfinal since Ken Rosewall at the December 1977 Australian Open. His fourth-round victory marked 105 match wins at Wimbledon. The 18 quarterfinals and 119 matches he contested at Wimbledon are both tournament records.
Berrettini was the first Italian man to reach a major final since Adriano Panatta at the 1976 French Open and the first to do so at Wimbledon. Hurkacz was the first Polish man to reach a major semifinal since Jerzy Janowicz in 2013. Zhang Zhizhen was the first Chinese man to qualify for the Wimbledon main draw in the Open Era. Márton Fucsovics was the first Hungarian to reach a men's singles major quarterfinal since Balázs Taróczy at the 1981 French Open, and the first to do so at Wimbledon since József Asbóth in 1948. This was the first time since 2017 that two-time champion Andy Murray participated. This marked the Wimbledon debuts of future world No. 1s and champions Carlos Alcaraz and Jannik Sinner; they lost to Medvedev and Fucsovics in the second and first rounds, respectively.
For the first time since 2002, the grass court seeding formula was abandoned and the standard ranking system based on the ATP rankings was permanently adopted, like at the other three majors.

Seeds
Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.

Draw
Key

Finals
Top half
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Bottom half
Section 5
Section 6
Section 7
Section 8
Seeded players
The following are the seeded players. Seedings are based on ATP rankings as of 21 June 2021. Rankings and points are as before 28 June 2021. Players will count either their 2021 points or 50% of their 2019 points, whichever is greater.

† The player did not qualify for the tournament in 2019. Accordingly, points defending from the ATP Challenger Tour are deducted instead.
^ Because the 2021 tournament was non-mandatory, the player substituted his 19th best result in place of the points won in this tournament.

Withdrawn players
The following players would have been seeded, but withdrew before the tournament began. Only half of their defending points are deducted.

^ Because the 2021 tournament was non-mandatory, the player substituted his 19th best result in place of the points won in this tournament.

Other entry information
Wild card entries
The following players were awarded wild cards into the main draw.

Qualifiers
Lucky losers
Protected ranking
Withdrawals
‡ – withdrew from entry list before qualifying began
@ – withdrew from entry list after qualifying began
§ – withdrew from main draw

See also
2021 Wimbledon Championships – Day-by-day summaries

Explanatory notes
References
External links
Men's singles draw
The Championships 2021 – Gentlemen's Singles