# 2023 Australian Open – Men's singles

Novak Djokovic defeated Stefanos Tsitsipas in the final, 6–3, 7–6(7–4), 7–6(7–5) to win the men's singles tennis title at the 2023 Australian Open. It was his record-extending tenth Australian Open title and 22nd major men's singles title overall, equaling Rafael Nadal's all-time record. He was the second man to win ten titles at a single major, after Nadal at the French Open. Djokovic extended his match winning-streak at the Australian Open to an Open Era record 28 matches.
Nadal was the defending champion, but lost in the second round to Mackenzie McDonald. This marked the two-time champion, six-time finalist, Olympic gold medalist, and former world No. 1's final Australian Open appearance, as he retired from the sport the following year.
Carlos Alcaraz, Casper Ruud, Tsitsipas and Djokovic were in contention for the world No. 1 singles ranking at the beginning of the tournament. By winning the tournament, Djokovic reclaimed the top spot. Alcaraz, the incumbent world No. 1, withdrew from the tournament due to a right leg injury.
As in the previous major held a few months earlier, neither of the top two seeds advanced to the quarterfinals, with Nadal and Ruud both losing in the second round; this marked the first men's singles major since the 2002 Australian Open where the top two seeds lost prior to the third round. Tsitsipas was the youngest finalist since Djokovic in 2011. Tommy Paul was the first American man to reach the semifinals since Andy Roddick in 2009.
With his win over Thanasi Kokkinakis in the longest match of his career, Andy Murray won a match from two sets down for a record eleventh time.

Seeds
Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.

Draw
Key

Finals
Top half
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Bottom half
Section 5
Section 6
Section 7
Section 8
Seeded players
The following are the seeded players. Seedings are based on ATP rankings as of 9 January 2023. Rankings and points before are as of 16 January 2023.

† The player did not qualify for the main draw in 2022. He is defending points from two 2022 ATP Challenger Tour tournaments (Concepción and Santa Cruz) instead.

Withdrawn players
The following players would have been seeded, but withdrew before the tournament began.

Other entry information
Wild cards
Source:

Protected ranking
Source:

Qualifiers
Lucky losers
Source:

Withdrawals
The entry list was released by Tennis Australia based on the ATP rankings for the week of 5 December 2022.

‡ – withdrew from entry list before qualifying began
@ – withdrew from entry list after qualifying began
§ – withdrew from main draw

See also
2023 Australian Open – Day-by-day summaries
2023 ATP Tour
2023 ITF Men's World Tennis Tour
List of Grand Slam men's singles champions
International Tennis Federation

Notes
References
External links
Draw
Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) – 2023 Australian Open Men's Singles draw
2023 Australian Open – Men's draws and results at the International Tennis Federation