# 2022 Wimbledon Championships – Men's singles

Three-time defending champion Novak Djokovic defeated Nick Kyrgios in the final, 4–6, 6–3, 6–4, 7–6(7–3) to win the gentlemen's singles tennis title at the 2022 Wimbledon Championships. It was his seventh Wimbledon title and 21st major singles title overall. Djokovic was the fifth man in the Open Era to win four consecutive titles at one major (joining Björn Borg, Pete Sampras, Roger Federer, and Rafael Nadal). By reaching his 32nd men's singles major final, he surpassed Federer's all-time record. Djokovic became the first player (male or female) to win 80 matches at all four majors with his first-round win. Because the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) decided not to award ranking points in response to Wimbledon's banning of Russian and Belarusian players, Djokovic dropped out of the top five in the ATP rankings after winning the tournament.
Nadal was attempting to complete the third component of a prospective Grand Slam, but withdrew before the semifinals due to a torn abdominal muscle. It was the first time a man withdrew from a Wimbledon semifinal or final since Frank Shields in 1931. This was the two-time champion's final appearance at Wimbledon.
This was the first edition of Wimbledon to feature a champions tiebreak (10-point tiebreak), when the score reaches six games all in the fifth set. Alejandro Davidovich Fokina defeated Hubert Hurkacz in the first round in the first main-draw 10-point tiebreak at Wimbledon. It was the first Wimbledon since the introduction of the ATP rankings in 1973, and the first major since the 1999 Australian Open, where both the reigning world No. 1 and No. 2 (Daniil Medvedev and Alexander Zverev, respectively) did not compete; Medvedev was prohibited from playing due to his Russian nationality, while Zverev was recovering from an ankle injury sustained at the French Open. This marked the first edition of Wimbledon since 1998 not to feature record eight-time champion Federer, resulting in his dropping out of the ATP rankings for the first time since 1998 (Federer would retire from professional tennis later that year). Kyrgios was the first unseeded man to reach a major final since Jo-Wilfried Tsonga at the 2008 Australian Open and the first Australian man to reach a major final since Lleyton Hewitt at the 2005 Australian Open. Feliciano López made his 81st (and final) main-draw major appearance, tying Federer's all-time record. John Isner broke Ivo Karlović's record of 13,728 career aces in his third-round match against Jannik Sinner.

Seeds
All seeds per ATP rankings.

Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.

Draw
Key

Finals
Top half
Section 1
Section 2
Section 3
Section 4
Bottom half
Section 5
Section 6
Section 7
Section 8
Seeded players
The following are the seeded players. Seedings are based on ATP rankings as of 20 June 2022. Rankings and points are as before 27 June 2022.
As a result of special ranking adjustment rules due to the COVID-19 pandemic, players are defending the higher of (i) their points from the 2021 tournament or (ii) the remaining 50% of their points from the 2019 tournament. Those points were not mandatory and are included in the table below only if they counted towards the player's ranking as of 27 June 2022. Note that this is a different rankings adjustment system than the one that the WTA is using for the women's tournament.
The ATP is removing ranking points from the 2022 tournament as a result of the All England Club's decision to ban Russian and Belarusian players from the tournament. Points dropping from the 2021 or 2019 tournaments will accordingly be replaced by the player's next best result, regardless of his performance at Wimbledon in 2022.

† This column shows the higher of the player's points from the 2021 tournament or 50% of his points from the 2019 tournament. Only ranking points counting towards the player's ranking as of 27 June 2022 are reflected in the column.
‡ Because the ATP is removing ranking points from the 2022 tournament, 2021 or 2019 points will be replaced by the player's next best result instead.
§ The player had no points from either the 2021 or 2019 tournaments counting towards his ranking on 27 June 2022. Accordingly, no points will be replaced.

Withdrawn players
The following players would have been seeded, but withdrew before the tournament began.

Banned players
The following players would have been seeded, but were not permitted to enter the tournament due to the decision to ban players from Russia and Belarus.

Other entry information
Wild cards
Source:

Protected ranking
Qualifiers
Lucky losers
Withdrawals
Banned list
The All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club declined entries from Russian and Belarusian players to 2022 Wimbledon Championships, stating that "in the circumstances of such unjustified and unprecedented military aggression, it would be unacceptable for the Russian regime to derive any benefits from the involvement of Russian or Belarusian players with The Championships".

On entry list
The entry list was released based on the ATP rankings for the week of 16 May 2022.

‡ – withdrew from entry list before qualifying draw
† – withdrew from entry list after qualifying draw
§ – withdrew from main draw

Explanatory notes
References
External links
Entry List
Draw
ITF Preview