# 2024 ATP Finals

The 2024 ATP Finals (also known as the 2024 Nitto ATP Finals for Nitto sponsorship) was a men's tennis year-end tournament played on indoor hard courts at the Inalpi Arena in Turin, Italy, from 10 to 17 November 2024. It was the season-ending event for the highest-ranked singles players and doubles teams on the 2024 ATP Tour. This was the 55th edition of the tournament (50th in doubles), and the fourth time Turin hosted the ATP Tour year-end championships.

Champions
Singles
Jannik Sinner def.  Taylor Fritz, 6–4, 6–4

Doubles
Kevin Krawietz /  Tim Pütz def.  Marcelo Arévalo /  Mate Pavić, 7–6(7–5), 7–6(8–6)

Format
The ATP Finals group stage has a round-robin format, with eight players/teams divided into two groups of four and each player/team in a group playing the other three in the group. The eight seeds are determined by the Pepperstone ATP rankings and ATP Doubles Team Rankings on the Monday after the last ATP Tour tournament of the calendar year. All singles matches, including the final, are best of three sets with tie-breaks in each set including the third. All doubles matches are two sets (no ad) and a Match Tie-break.
In deciding placement within a group, the following criteria are used, in order:

Most wins.
Most matches played (e.g., a 2–1 record beats a 2–0 record).
Head-to-head result between tied players/teams.
Highest percentage of sets won.
Highest percentage of games won.
ATP rank after the last ATP Tour tournament of the year.
Criteria 4–6 are used only in the event of a three-way tie; if one of these criteria decided a winner or loser among the three, the remaining two will have been ranked by head-to-head result.
The top two of each group will advance to semifinals, with the winner of each group playing the runner-up of the other group. The winners of the semifinals then will play for the title.

Prize money, ranking points and trophies
The 2024 ATP Finals has a total prize money pool of $15,250,000, an increase of 1.67% compared to 2023 and the same total as the WTA Finals for the first time since 2015. The tournament rewards the following points and prize money, per victory (Doubles' prize money is per team):

An undefeated champion would earn the maximum 1,500 points, and $4,881,100 in singles or $959,300 in doubles.
Additional prizes include the ATP Finals trophy and the ATP year-end No. 1 trophy, all made by London-based silversmiths Thomas Lyte.

Qualification
Singles
Eight players compete at the tournament, with two named alternates. Players receive places in the following order of precedence:

First, the top 7 players in the ATP Race to Turin after the final week of the ATP Tour on 9 November 2024
Second, up to two 2024 Grand Slam tournament winners ranked anywhere 8th–20th, in ranking order
Third, the eighth ranked player in the ATP rankings
In the event of this totaling more than 8 players, those lower down in the selection order become the alternates. If further alternates are needed, these players are selected by the ATP.
Provisional rankings are published weekly as the ATP Race to Turin, coinciding with the 52-week rolling ATP rankings on the date of selection. Points are accumulated in Grand Slam, ATP Tour, United Cup, ATP Challenger Tour and ITF Tour tournaments. Players accrue points across 19 tournaments, usually made up of:

The 4 Grand Slam tournaments
The 8 mandatory ATP Masters 1000 tournaments
The best results from any 7 other tournaments that carry ranking points (Monte-Carlo Masters, United Cup, ATP 500, ATP 250, Challenger, ITF)
Player can replace up to 3 mandatory Masters 1000 results with a better score from ATP 500 or ATP 250

Doubles
Eight teams compete at the tournament, with one named alternate. The eight competing teams receive places according to the same order of precedence as in singles. The named alternate will be offered first to any unaccepted teams in the selection order, then to the highest ranked unaccepted team, and then to a team selected by the ATP. Points are accumulated in the same competitions as for the singles tournament. However, for Doubles teams there are no commitment tournaments, so teams are ranked according to their 19 highest points scoring results from any tournaments on the ATP Tour.

Qualified players
Singles
Doubles
Points breakdown
Singles
Notes

Doubles
Head-to-head records
Below are the head-to-head records as they approached the tournament.

Singles
Doubles
See also
ATP rankings
2024 ATP Tour
2024 WTA Finals
ATP Finals appearances

References
External links
Official website (in English, Spanish, and Japanese)
ATP tournament profile